1 
  
 
         
 
REQUEST  FOR  PROPOSAL  (RFP)  
RurAL CAP -HQ-25-R -011731 E. 8th Avenue 
Anchorage,  AK 99501 
907.279.2511 
www.ruralcap.org 
 
 
 
 WEBSITE RESTRUCTURE  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
Prepared By: Darrel  Behymer , CPP  
 Date : 06/30/25
Website Restructure RFP                   
RurAL CAP -HQ-25-R -011  
2 
  
REQUEST  FOR  PROPOSAL  
 
 
 
SUBMISSION DEADLINE: July 25, 2025 at 4PM  
QUESTION  SUBMISSION  DEADLINE:  July 18, 2025 at 4PM  
 
 
 BID LOCATION:  731 E 8th Ave., Anchorage, AK 99501 
   
Questions  may be emailed to: 
 
RFP Contact Name:  Mariah O lney, Communications & Digital Content Supervisor   
 
Telephone Number: 907.865.7313  
 
Email Address:  communications@ruralcap.org  
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Rural  Alaska  Community  Action Program,  Inc. (RurAL  CAP)  is requesting proposals from qualified 
web designer who is licensed to do business in Alaska.  Enclosed is pertinent information for use in 
preparing your bid. This information will be used as a guide in preparing any subsequent contract. 
Bids must be received via email  to dbehymer@ruralcap.org by 4:00 PM on July 2 5, 2025.  All bids  
must  include the reference on email  subject, "RurAL CAP Website Restructure RFP ,” and 
addressed to: Darrel Behymer, CPP . Bids received after the deadline specified above will  not be 
accepted.  All questions regarding this bid request must be emailed prior to July 1 8, 2025 at 4 pm 
(Alaska Standard Time). Responses to questions will be sent to all parties who have received bid 
packages,  proposals  and who have registered their email  address. To register  your email, email  
Darrel Behymer, CPP . 
 
One (1) copy  of your proposal  is required for submission  to RurAL  CAP.  
RurAL  CAP reserves  the right to reject  any and all bids and waive  informalities  in procedures.   
Website Restructure RFP                  
RurAL CAP -HQ-25-R -011 
 
3 
 INDEX 
 
SECTIONS 
1. General  Information  
2. Rules  Governing Competition  
3. Scope of Work  
4. Proposal  and Submission Requirements  
5.  Evaluation and Selection  Process  
 
Appendix A: Schedule A Insurance and Indemnification  
 
SECTION 1: GENERAL INFORMATION  
The Rural  Alaska  Community  Action  Program , Inc. (RurAL  CAP) is soliciting  proposals  from qualified web 
designers to restructure RurAL CAP ’s website.  
 
The following proposal  request will outline the project goals  and detail  the format you should submit your 
proposal. Please read the timeline carefully. In order for your proposal to be considered, your proposal  
must  be submitted by our deadline  at 4PM . 
 
Preparation Costs  & Fees  
 
RurAL CAP shall not be responsible for bid preparation costs, nor for costs including attorney ’s fees 
associated with any (administrative,  judicial,  or otherwise)  challenge to the determination of the highest 
ranked bidder and/or award of a contract and/or rejection of bids. By submitting a bid each bidder agrees 
to be bound in this respect and waives all claims to such costs and fees.  
 
SECTION  2: RULES  GOVERNING  COMPETITION  
2.1 Examination of Bids 
 
Bidders  are encouraged to thoroughly  review  the complete RFP package prior to preparing and 
submitting a response.  
2.2 Confidentiality  Information 
 The content of all bids will be kept confidential . A letter will be released to each vendor who 
submitted their bid if it has  been accepted or not after  the review committee has completed. 
 
2.3 Proposal  Format  
 
Bids are expected to be brief and specifically  address  the criteria  listed under  the scope of work.  
 
2.4 Signature Requirements All bids must  be signed.  
 
2.5 Bid Submission  
Bids shall be emailed to dbehymer@ruralcap.org  
  
Website Restructure RFP                  
RurAL CAP -HQ-25-R -011 
 
4 
 2.6 News  Releases  
News releases pertaining to any award that may result from the RFP shall not be made without 
prior written approval of the RurAL CAP CEO.  
2.7 Disposition of Bids 
All materials  submitted in response to this RFP shall become the property  of RurAL  CAP. The 
original shall be retained for the official file and will become public record after the award of the 
Contract or Contracts.  
2.8 Modifications/Withdrawal  of Proposals  
 A respondent may withdraw a bid at any time prior to the final submission date by sending written 
notification of its withdrawal and signed by an agent authorized to represent the respondent. The 
respondent may then submit a new or modified bid before the final submission date. Modifications 
offered in any other matter, oral or written, will not be considered. A final bid cannot be changed 
or withdrawn after the time designated for receipt except for modifications requested by RurAL 
CAP after the date of receipt. 
 
2.9 Oral Change/ Interpretation  
 No oral change or interpretation of any provision contained in this RFP is valid.  
 
2.10 Late Submissions  
 
Bids received after the RFP deadline will not be considered.  
2.11 Rejection of Proposals  
 RurAL  CAP reserves  the right to reject  any or all bids if determined to be in the best interest of 
RurAL CAP.  
2.12 Equal  Employment Opportunity  Reporting Requirements  
 The successful  bidder  may be required to execute and return EEO  reporting forms  if required.  
2.13 License  and Insurance Requirements  
The successful bidder is required to provide, with the bid, a current Business License (or permit) , 
Proof of Liability Insurance, Workers Compensation Insurance and other required federal, state, or 
local licenses.  Please review  attached Schedule A, this covers RurAL CAP’s insurance 
requirements to consider while submitting your bid.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Webs
ite Restructure RFP
RurAL CAP -HQ-25-R-011 
5 SECTION 3. 0: SCOPE OF WORK  
1. Website Restructure
a. Services and materials to incl ude:
•P
roject management
•Provide recommendations and best practices to optimize and implement provided site map
•Edit and upload provided content and collect and organize provided imagery
•Add landing pages following agency guidelines
o Template program pages with additional options
o Set up redirects for page accessibility
•Provide tiered editing permissions for program leads
•Train RurAL CAP staff on site updates and ongoing site management, and provi de
r
ecordings  of those trainings for future agency reference
b. Types of content for program pages :
i. D
escription of program, logos, etc.
ii. Story maps
iii. Calendar for upcoming events
iv. Links for interest or intake forms
v. Schedule an appointment feature
2. Resource Library
a. Filter by/search by:
i. Program
ii. Topic
3. U
pcoming Events Calendar by program
i.Ticker found on program page
4. P
rovisions
i.RurAL CAP will provide starting content and imagery related to programs .
ii.R
urAL CAP branding
5. E
xisting Logo editing
i.Re-create as an editable document in Illustrator
SEC
TION 4.0: TIMELINE  
All services must be billed for payment in full by September 30, 2025. 
Question Submission Deadline  July 18, 2025 
Submission Deadline  July 25, 2025  
Services billed for payment in full  September 30, 2025  
SEC
TION 4.0: PROPOSAL  AND SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS Webs
ite Restructure RFP
RurAL CAP -HQ-25-R-011 
6 To achieve a uniform and expedited review process and ensure the maximum degree of comparability, it is 
r
equired that the bids be organized in the manner specified. Bids  shall not exceed 12 pages  in length. 
Information in excess of those allowed will not be evaluated or scored. One page shall  be interpreted as 
one side of single lined, typed, 8 1/2” x 11” paper.  
4.1 Title Page 
Show  the bid name (RFP), bidders  name, company name if applicable, address, telephone number 
and date. 
4.2 Background and Experience 
Provide your company’s background and experience with similar types of projects. Also include 
3references.  
4.3 Proposed Fee Schedule/Costs/Budget Limits  
Bids must be submitted on your own bid sheet and reflect the services  desc ribed under this s cope of 
work. The email mus t clearly  state the RFP name and c ompany name. 
4.4 Provide a copy of your Certificate of Insurance and Business License 
SEC
TION 5.0: EVALUATION & SELECTION PROCESS 
5.1 Criteria  
The criteria that will be considered  during evaluations, and the associated point values, are 
as follows:  
5.2 Evaluation  Process  
A committee of RurAL CAP staff will evaluate and rank all bids received prior to the deadline.  
Oral interviews  are not expected to be used in the selection of the successful  bidder however, 
RurAL CAP reserves the right to interview the highest ranked bidder if deemed necessary. 
5.3 Selection  Process  
The highest ranked bidder may be invited to enter final contract negotiations with RurAL CAP for 
the purposes of contract award. If an agreement cannot be reached, the second highest bidder 
may be contacted for negotiations. RurAL CAP reserves the right to terminate negotiations  with 
any bidder  should it be in RurAL CAP's. RurAL CAP reserves the right to reject any and all bids 
submitted.   Fees / costs  55 points  
  Background , Experience  and website 
links examples  35 points 
 References 5 poi nts  
  Meeting the requirements  of the RFP* 5 points  
    Total:       100 Points  
*By providing all requested docu ments 
Website Restructure RFP                  
RurAL CAP -HQ-25-R -011 
 
7 
  
Appendix A 
 
 
Schedule  A 
INSURANCE & INDEMNIFICATION  
 
CONTRACTOR shall comply with the provisions herein entitled, Schedule A Insurance & 
Indemnification. CONTRACTOR,  at its sole cost, shall purchase and maintain  the required insurance 
with coverages, endorsements, waivers, and limits as described therein.  
 
All insurance shall be maintained continuously during the life of the Contract. CONTRACTOR shall furnish to Rural Alaska Community Action Program (RurAL CAP), certificates showing the type, amount, class of operation, effective dates,  and dates of expiration of policies. Such evidence is to be 
provided by CONTRACTOR to RurAL CAP no less than ten (10) days prior to CONTRACTOR  
commencing  work.  It is understood  and agreed  that RurAL  CAP shall be entitled to notification  at 
least 30 days prior to the expiration  of such policies.  Failure  by CONTRACTOR to maintain insurance 
coverage as agreed shall be a material breach of this Contract and will result in termination of this Contract. Certificates shall be addressed to: Rural Alaska Community Action Program (RurAL CAP).  
 
RurAL CAP shall not be required to confirm that CONTRACTOR has provided evidence of coverage 
and/or renewals and no waiver by RurAL CAP of any of CONTRACTOR’s obligations pursuant  to this 
or any other provision of this Contract  shall occur  or be inferred  or implied  by any failure of RurAL 
CAP to insist upon strict performance of this or any other section of this Contract.  
 
All insurance required to be maintained by CONTRACTOR shall be primary to any and all insurance  
(including self-insurance) obtained or maintained  by, or otherwise  available  to RurAL CAP and all 
policies shall be endorsed accordingly. RurAL CAP’s insurance shall not be called upon to contribute 
or participate with the CONTRACTOR’s insurance on any basis.  
 
Except  for Worker’s Compensation  and Professional  Liability, each and every  insurance  policy 
required of CONTRACTOR shall include an insurer’s waiver of subrogation rights in favor of RurAL CAP. Each and every insurance policy required of CONTRACTOR shall be endorsed to name RurAL CAP as Additional Insured with respect to liability arising out of CONTRACTOR’s operations and/or its 
services hereunder.  
 
In the event  the terms  of the current  Contract  and this Schedule  A conflict, the terms  of the contract 
shall control.  
 
Insurance  Type and Limit Requirements:  
• Workers  Compensation  for not less than $ 500,000.00 per occurrence  
• Commercial  General  Liability not less than $ 1,000,000.00 per occurrence  
• Automobile  Liability Insurance  not less than $ 1,000,000.00 per occurrence for bodily injury 
and property damage  
 
   